---
title: "Dual-view pyramid pooling in deep neural networks for improved medical image classification and confidence calibration"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-09-01-5
date: 2024-09-01
authors: Xiaoqing Zhang, Qiushi Nie, Zunjie Xiao, Jilu Zhao, Xiao Wu, Pengxin Guo, Runzhi Li, Jin Liu, Yanjie Wei, Yi Pan
venue: (Under Review) International Journal of Computer Vision
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.02906'
---

Co-first author (2nd) of this paper.



## Abstract

Spatial pooling (SP) and cross-channel pooling (CCP) operators have been applied to aggregate spatial features and pixel-wise features from feature maps in deep neural networks (DNNs), respectively. Their main goal is to reduce computation and memory overhead without visibly weakening the performance of DNNs. However, SP often faces the problem of losing the subtle feature representations, while CCP has a high possibility of ignoring salient feature representations, which may lead to both miscalibration of confidence issues and suboptimal medical classification results. To address these problems, we propose a novel dual-view framework, the first to systematically investigate the relative roles of SP and CCP by analyzing the difference between spatial features and pixel-wise features. Based on this framework, we propose a new pooling method, termed dual-view pyramid pooling (DVPP), to aggregate multi-scale dual-view features. DVPP aims to boost both medical image classification and confidence calibration performance by fully leveraging the merits of SP and CCP operators from a dual-axis perspective. Additionally, we discuss how to fulfill DVPP with five parameter-free implementations. Extensive experiments on six 2D/3D medical image classification tasks show that our DVPP surpasses state-of-the-art pooling methods in terms of medical image classification results and confidence calibration across different DNNs.
